---
date: 2018-07-01
publishDate: 2018-07-01
title: "Evaluation of large pixel CMOS image sensors for the Tomo-e Gozen wide field camera"
tags: ["国際会議"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Proc. SPIE*, pp. 107091T

### 著者:

- Yuto Kojima
- Shigeyuki Sako
- Ryou Ohsawa
- Hidenori Takahashi
- Mamoru Doi
- Naoto Kobayashi
- Tsutomu Aoki
- Noriaki Arima
- Ko Arimatsu
- Makoto Ichiki
- Shiro Ikeda
- Kota Inooka
- Yoshifusa Ita
- Toshihiro Kasuga
- Mitsuru Kokubo
- Masahiro Konishi
- Hiroyuki Maehara
- Noriyuki Matsunaga
- Kazuma Mitsuda
- Takashi Miyata
- Yuki Mori
- Mikio Morii
- Tomoki Morokuma
- Kentaro Motohara
- Yoshikazu Nakada
- Shin-Ichiro Okumura
- Yuki Sarugaku
- Mikiya Sato
- Toshikazu Shigeyama
- Takao Soyano
- Masaomi Tanaka
- Ken'ichi Tarusawa
- Nozomu Tominaga
- Tomonori Totani
- Seitaro Urakawa
- Fumihiko Usui
- Junichi Watanabe
- Takuya Yamashita
- Makoto Yoshikawa

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2311301" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>

---

### Abstract:

Tomo-e Gozen (Tomo-e) is a wide field optical camera for the Kiso $1.05$ m f$/3.1$ Schmidt telescope operated by the University of Tokyo. Tomo-e is equipped with 84 chips of front-illuminated CMOS image sensors with a microlens array. The field of view is about 20 square degrees and maximum frame rate is 2 fps. The CMOS sensor has 2160$\times$1200 pixels and a size of pixel is 19 microns, which is larger than those of other CMOS sensors. We have evaluated performances of the CMOS sensors installed in Tomo-e. The readout noise is 2.0 e$^-$ in 2 fps operations when an internal amplifier gain is set to 16. The dark current is 0.5 $e^-$/sec/pix at room temperature, 290K, which is lower than a typical sky background flux in Tomo-e observations, 50 e$^-$/sec/pix. The efficiency of the camera system peaks at approximately 0.7 in 500 nm.
