---
date: 2018-04-01
publishDate: 2018-04-01
title: "``Slow-scanning'' in ground-based mid-infrared observations"
tags: ["学術論文"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*The Astrophysical Journal*, vol. 857, no. 1, pp. 37(11pp)

### 著者:

- Ryou Ohsawa
- Shigeyuki Sako
- Takashi Miyata
- Takafumi Kamizuka
- Kazushi Okada
- Kiyoshi Mori
- Masahito S. Uchiyama
- Junpei Yamaguchi
- Takuya Fujiyoshi
- Mikio Morii
- Shiro Ikeda

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/aab6ae" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1804.04271" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

Chopping observations with a tip-tilt secondary mirror have conventionally been used in ground-based mid-infrared observations. However, it is not practical for next generation large telescopes to have a large tip-tilt mirror that moves at a frequency larger than a few hertz. We propose an alternative observing method, a ``slow-scanning'' observation. Images are continuously captured as movie data, while the field of view is slowly moved. The signal from an astronomical object is extracted from the movie data by a low-rank and sparse matrix decomposition. The performance of the ``slow-scanning'' observation was tested in an experimental observation with Subaru/COMICS. The quality of a resultant image in the ``slow-scanning'' observation was as good as in a conventional chopping observation with COMICS, at least for a bright point-source object. The observational efficiency in the ``slow-scanning'' observation was better than that in the chopping observation. The results suggest that the ``slow-scanning'' observation can be a competitive method for the Subaru telescope and be of potential interest to other ground-based facilities to avoid chopping.
