---
date: 2019-08-01
publishDate: 2019-08-01
title: "The Hyper Suprime-Cam SSP Transient Survey in COSMOS: Overview"
tags: ["学術論文"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan*, vol. 71, no. 4, pp. 74

### 著者:

- Naoki Yasuda
- Masaomi Tanaka
- Nozomu Tominaga
- Ji-an Jiang
- Takashi J. Moriya
- Tomoki Morokuma
- Nao Suzuki
- Ichiro Takahashi
- Masaki S. Yamaguchi
- Keiichi Maeda
- Masao Sako
- Shiro Ikeda
- Akisato Kimura
- Mikio Morii
- Naonori Ueda
- Naoki Yoshida
- Chien-Hsiu Lee
- Sherry H. Suyu
- Yutaka Komiyama
- Nicolas Regnault
- David Rubin

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/pasj/psz050" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.09697" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

We present an overview of a deep transient survey of the COSMOS field with the Subaru Hyper Suprime-Cam (HSC). The survey was performed for the 1.77 deg$^2$ ultra-deep layer and 5.78 deg$^2$ deep layer in the Subaru Strategic Program over six- and four-month periods from 2016 to 2017, respectively. The ultra-deep layer reaches a median depth per epoch of 26.4, 26.3, 26.0, 25.6, and 24.6 mag in $g$, $r$, $i$, $z$, and $y$ bands, respectively; the deep layer is $\sim$0.6 mag shallower. In total, 1824 supernova candidates were identified. Based on light-curve fitting and derived light-curve shape parameter, we classified 433 objects as Type Ia supernovae (SNe); among these candidates, 129 objects have spectroscopic or COSMOS2015 photometric redshifts and 58 objects are located at $z > 1$. Our unique data set doubles the number of Type Ia SNe at $z > 1$ and enables various time-domain analyses of Type II SNe, high-redshift superluminous SNe, variable stars, and active galactic nuclei.
