---
date: 2019-04-01
publishDate: 2019-04-01
title: "First M87 Event Horizon Telescope Results. VI. The Shadow and Mass of the Central Black Hole"
tags: ["Journal Paper", "Event Horizon Telescope Papers"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*The Astrophysical Journal Letters*, vol. 875, no. 1, pp. L6(44pp)

### Authors:

- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.3847/2041-8213/ab1141" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.11243" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

We present measurements of the properties of the central radio source in M87 using Event Horizon Telescope data obtained during the 2017 campaign. We develop and fit geometric crescent models (asymmetric rings with interior brightness depressions) using two independent sampling algorithms that consider distinct representations of the visibility data. We show that the crescent family of models is statistically preferred over other comparably complex geometric models that we explore. We calibrate the geometric model parameters using general relativistic magnetohydrodynamic (GRMHD) models of the emission region and estimate physical properties of the source. We further fit images generated from GRMHD models directly to the data. We compare the derived emission region and black hole parameters from these analyses with those recovered from reconstructed images. There is a remarkable consistency among all methods and data sets. We find that $>50 %$ of the total flux at arcsecond scales comes from near the horizon, and that the emission is dramatically suppressed interior to this region by a factor $>10$, providing direct evidence of the predicted shadow of a black hole. Across all methods, we measure a crescent diameter of $42 \pm 3 µas$ and constrain its fractional width to be $< 0.5$. Associating the crescent feature with the emission surrounding the black hole shadow, we infer an angular gravitational radius of $GM/Dc^2 = 3.8 \pm 0.4 µas$. Folding in a distance measurement of $16.8_-0.7^+0.8$ Mpc gives a black hole mass of $M=6.5\pm 0.2|_{\mathrmstat}\pm 0.7|_{\mathrmsys}\times 10^9$ $M_{\odot}$. This measurement from lensed emission near the event horizon is consistent with the presence of a central Kerr black hole, as predicted by the general theory of relativity.
