---
date: 2020-05-01
publishDate: 2020-05-01
title: "Super-resolution Imaging of the Protoplanetary Disk HD 142527 Using Sparse Modeling"
tags: ["Journal Paper"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*The Astrophysical Journal*, vol. 895, no. 2, pp. 84(14pp)

### Authors:

- Masayuki Yamaguchi
- Kazunori Akiyama
- Takashi Tsukagoshi
- Takayuki Muto
- Akimasa Kataoka
- Fumie Tazaki
- Shiro Ikeda
- Misato Fukagawa
- Mareki Honma
- Ryohei Kawabe

### Keywords:

- sparse modeling
- ALMA
- imaging
- radio interferometer

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/ab899f" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.10989" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

With an emphasis on improving the fidelity even in super-resolution regimes, new imaging techniques have been intensively developed over the last several years, which may provide substantial improvements to the interferometric observation of protoplanetary disks. In this study, sparse modeling (SpM) is applied for the first time to observational data sets taken by the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA). The two data sets used in this study were taken independently using different array configurations at Band 7 (330 GHz), targeting the protoplanetary disk around HD 142527: one in the shorter-baseline array configuration ($\sim430 m$), and the other in the longer-baseline array configuration ($\sim1570 m$). The image resolutions reconstructed from the two data sets are different by a factor of $\sim$3. We confirm that the previously known disk structures appear on the images produced by both SpM and CLEAN at the standard beam size. The image reconstructed from the shorter-baseline data using the SpM matches that obtained with the longer-baseline data using the CLEAN, achieving a super-resolution image from which a structure finer than the beam size can be reproduced. Our results demonstrate that ongoing intensive development in the SpM imaging technique is beneficial to imaging with ALMA.
