---
date: 2021-07-01
publishDate: 2021-07-01
title: "Event Horizon Telescope observations of the jet launching and collimation in Centaurus A"
tags: ["学術論文", "Event Horizon Telescope"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Nature Astronomy*, vol. 5, pp. 1017--1028

### 著者:

- M. Janssen
- H. Falcke
- M. Kadler
- Eduardo Ros
- Maciek Wielgus
- Kazunori Akiyama
- Mislav Balokovi\'c
- Lindy Blackburn
- Katherine L. Bouman
- Andrew Chael
- Chi-Kwan Chan
- Koushik Chatterjee
- Jordy Davelaar
- Philip G. Edwards
- Christian M. Fromm
- José L. Gómez
- Ciriaco Goddi
- Sara Issaoun
- Michael D. Johnson
- Junhan Kim
- Jun Yi Koay
- Thomas P. Krichbaum
- Jun Liu
- Elisabetta Liuzzo
- Sera Markoff
- Alex Markowitz
- Daniel P. Marrone
- Yosuke Mizuno
- Cornelia Müller
- Chunchong Ni
- Dominic W. Pesce
- Venkatessh Ramakrishnan
- Freek Roelofs
- Kazi L. J. Rygl
- Ilse van Bemmel
- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1038/s41550-021-01417-w" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>

---

### Abstract:

Very-long-baseline interferometry (VLBI) observations of active galactic nuclei at millimetre wavelengths have the power to reveal the launching and initial collimation region of extragalactic radio jets, down to 10$-$100 gravitational radii ($r_g\equiv GM/c^2$) scales in nearby sources. Centaurus A is the closest radio-loud source to Earth. It bridges the gap in mass and accretion rate between the supermassive black holes (SMBHs) in Messier 87 and our Galactic Centre. A large southern declination of $-43°$ has, however, prevented VLBI imaging of Centaurus A below a wavelength of 1 cm thus far. Here we show the millimetre VLBI image of the source, which we obtained with the Event Horizon Telescope at 228 GHz. Compared with previous observations, we image the jet of Centaurus A at a tenfold higher frequency and sixteen times sharper resolution and thereby probe sub-lightday structures. We reveal a highly collimated, asymmetrically edge-brightened jet as well as the fainter counterjet. We find that the source structure of Centaurus A resembles the jet in Messier 87 on $\sim$500 $r_g$ scales remarkably well. Furthermore, we identify the location of Centaurus A's SMBH with respect to its resolved jet core at a wavelength of 1.3 mm and conclude that the source's event horizon shadow should be visible at terahertz frequencies. This location further supports the universal scale invariance of black holes over a wide range of masses.
