---
date: 2023-02-01
publishDate: 2023-02-01
title: "The Event Horizon Telescope Image of the Quasar NRAO 530"
tags: ["Journal Paper"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*The Astrophysical Journal*, vol. 943, no. 2, pp. 170(27pp)

### Authors:

- Svetlana Jorstad
- Maciek Wielgus
- Rocco Lico
- Sara Issaoun
- Avery E. Broderick
- Dominic W. Pesce
- Jun Liu
- Guang-Yao Zhao
- Thomas P. Krichbaum
- Lindy Blackburn
- Chi-kwan Chan
- Michael Janssen
- Venkatessh Ramakrishnan
- Kazunori Akiyama
- Antxon Alberdi
- Juan Carlos Algaba
- Katherine L. Bouman
- Ilje Cho
- Antonio Fuentes
- José L. Gómez
- Mark Gurwell
- Michael D. Johnson
- Jae-Young Kim
- Ru-Sen Lu
- Iván Mart{\'\i}-Vidal
- Monika Moscibrodzka
- Felix M. Pötzl
- Efthalia Traianou
- Ilse van Bemmel
- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.3847/1538-4357/acaea8" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04622" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

We report on the observations of the quasar NRAO 530 with the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) on 2017 April 5–7, when NRAO 530 was used as a calibrator for the EHT observations of Sagittarius A$^\ast$. At $z=0.902$, this is the most distant object imaged by the EHT so far. We reconstruct the first images of the source at 230~GHz, at an unprecedented angular resolution of $\sim20 µas$, both in total intensity and in linear polarization (LP). We do not detect source variability, allowing us to represent the whole data set with static images. The images reveal a bright feature located on the southern end of the jet, which we associate with the core. The feature is linearly polarized, with a fractional polarization of $\sim$5 % – 8 %, and it has a substructure consisting of two components. Their observed brightness temperature suggests that the energy density of the jet is dominated by the magnetic field. The jet extends over 60~µas along a position angle $\sim-28°$. It includes two features with orthogonal directions of polarization (electric vector position angle), parallel and perpendicular to the jet axis, consistent with a helical structure of the magnetic field in the jet. The outermost feature has a particularly high degree of LP, suggestive of a nearly uniform magnetic field. Future EHT observations will probe the variability of the jet structure on microarcsecond scales, while simultaneous multiwavelength monitoring will provide insight into the high-energy emission origin.
