---
date: 2024-05-01
publishDate: 2024-05-01
title: "ALMA 2D Super-resolution Imaging of Taurus-Auriga Protoplanetary Disks: Probing Statistical Properties of Disk Substructures"
tags: ["Journal Paper"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan*, vol. 76, no. 3, pp. 437--474

### Authors:

- Masayuki Yamaguchi
- Takayuki Muto
- Takashi Tsukagoshi
- Hideko Nomura
- Naomi Hirano
- Takeshi Nakazato
- Shiro Ikeda
- Motohide Tamura
- Ryohei Kawabe

### Keywords:

- ALMA
- radio interferometer
- protoplanetary disk

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/pasj/psae022" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.13570" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

In the past decade, ALMA observations of protoplanetary disks revealed various substructures including gaps and rings. Their origin may be probed through statistical studies on the physical properties of the substructures. We present the analyses of archival ALMA Band 6 continuum data of 43 disks (39 Class II and 4 Herbig Ae) in the Taurus-Auriga region. We employ a novel 2D super-resolution imaging technique based on sparse modeling to obtain images with high fidelity and spatial resolution. As a result, we have obtained images with spatial resolutions comparable to a few au ($0''.02 - 0''.1$), which is two to three times better than conventional CLEAN methods. All dust disks are spatially resolved, with the radii ranging from 8 to 238 au with a median radius of 45 au. Half of the disks harbor clear gap structures, whose radial locations show a bimodal distribution with peaks at $łesssim20 au$ and $\gtrsim30 au$. We also see structures indicating weak gaps at all the radii in the disk. We find that the widths of these gaps increase with their depths, which is consistent with the model of planet-disk interactions. The inferred planet mass-orbital radius distribution indicates that the planet distribution is analogous to our Solar System. However, planets with Neptune mass or lower may exist in all the radii.
