---
date: 2024-05-01
publishDate: 2024-05-01
title: "Neural style transfer of weak lensing mass maps"
tags: ["Journal Paper"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*The Open Journal of Astrophysics*, vol. 7

### Authors:

- Masato Shirasaki
- Shiro Ikeda

### Keywords:

- weak lensing map
- Cycle GAN

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.33232/001c.118104" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.17141" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

We propose a new generative model of projected cosmic mass density maps inferred from weak gravitational lensing observations of distant galaxies (weak lensing mass maps). We construct the model based on a neural style transfer so that it can transform Gaussian weak lensing mass maps into deeply non-Gaussian counterparts as predicted in ray-tracing lensing simulations. We develop an unpaired image-to-image translation method with Cycle-Consistent Generative Adversarial Networks (Cycle GAN), which learn efficient mapping from an input domain to a target domain. Our model is designed to enjoy important advantages; it is trainable with no need for paired simulation data, flexible to make the input domain visually meaningful, and expandable to rapidly-produce a map with a larger sky coverage than training data without additional learning. Using 10,000 lensing simulations, we find that appropriate labeling of training data based on field variance allows the model to reproduce a correct scatter in summary statistics for weak lensing mass maps. Compared with a popular log-normal model, our model improves in predicting the statistical natures of three-point correlations and local properties of rare high-density regions. We also demonstrate that our model enables us to produce a continuous map with a sky coverage of $\sim166 \squaredeg$ but similar non-Gaussian features to training data covering $\sim12 \squaredeg$ in a GPU minute. Hence, our model can be beneficial to massive productions of synthetic weak lensing mass maps, which is of great importance in future precise real-world analyses.
