---
date: 2025-02-01
publishDate: 2025-02-01
title: "Smart Kanata: A Framework for Autonomous Decision Making in Rapid Follow-up Observations of Cataclysmic Variables"
tags: ["学術論文"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Publications of the Astronomical Society of Japan*, vol. 77, no. 2, pp. 219--236

### 著者:

- Makoto Uemura
- Yuzuki Koga
- Ryosuke Sazaki
- Tomoya Yukino
- Tatsuya Nakaoka
- Ryo Imazawa
- Taichi Kato
- Daisaku Nogami
- Keisuke Isogai
- Naoto Kojiguchi
- Kenta Taguchi
- Yusuke Tampo
- Hiroyuki Maehara
- Shiro Ikeda

### キーワード:

- accretion disks
- observational
- dwarf novae
- cataclysmic variables

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/pasj/psae112" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.02092" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

Studying the early stages of transient events provides crucial information about the fundamental physical processes in cataclysmic variables (CVs). However, determining an appropriate observation mode immediately after the discovery of a new transient presents challenges due to significant uncertainties regarding its nature. We developed a framework designed for autonomous decision making in prompt follow-up observations of CVs using the Kanata 1.5 m telescope. The system, named Smart Kanata, first estimates the class probabilities of variable star types using a generative model. It then selects the optimal observation mode from three possible options based on the mutual information calculated from the class probabilities. We have operated the system for $\sim 300$ days and obtained 21 samples, among which automated observations were successfully performed for a nova and a microlensing event. In the time-series spectra of the nova V4370 Oph, we detected a rapid deepening of the absorption component of the $H_\alpha$ line. These initial results demonstrate the capability of Smart Kanata in facilitating rapid observations and improving our understanding of outbursts and eruptions of CVs and other galactic transients.
