---
date: 2025-01-01
publishDate: 2025-01-01
title: "The Persistent Shadow of the Supermassive Black Hole of M87, II. Model comparisons and theoretical interpretations"
tags: ["Journal Paper", "Event Horizon Telescope"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Astronomy \& Astrophysics*, vol. 681, pp. A265(27pp)

### Authors:

- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### Keywords:

- accretion
- accretion disks
- black hole physics
- gravitation
- galaxies: active
- galaxies: individual:
                  M87
- galaxies: jets

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202451296" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>

---

### Abstract:

The Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) observation of M87* in 2018 has revealed a ring with a diameter that is consistent with the 2017 observation. The brightest part of the ring is shifted to the southwest from the southeast. In this paper, we provide theoretical interpretations for the multi-epoch EHT observations for M87* by comparing a new general relativistic magnetohydrodynamics model image library with the EHT observations for M87* in both 2017 and 2018. The model images include aligned and tilted accretion with parameterized thermal and nonthermal synchrotron emission properties. The 2018 observation again shows that the spin vector of the M87* supermassive black hole is pointed away from Earth. A shift of the brightest part of the ring during the multi-epoch observations can naturally be explained by the turbulent nature of black hole accretion, which is supported by the fact that the more turbulent retrograde models can explain the multi-epoch observations better than the prograde models. The EHT data are inconsistent with the tilted models in our model image library. Assuming that the black hole spin axis and its large-scale jet direction are roughly aligned, we expect the brightest part of the ring to be most commonly observed 90 deg clockwise from the forward jet. This prediction can be statistically tested through future observations.
