---
date: 2025-07-01
publishDate: 2025-07-01
title: "Origin of the Ring Ellipticity in the Black Hole Images of M87$^\\ast$"
tags: ["Journal Paper", "Event Horizon Telescope Papers"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Astronomy \& Astrophysics*, vol. 699, pp. A279(18pp)

### Authors:

- Rohan Dahale
- Ilje Cho
- Kotaro Moriyama
- Kaj Wiik
- Paul Tiede
- José L. Gómez
- Chi-Kwan Chan
- Roman Gold
- Vadim Y. Bernshteyn
- Marianna Foschi
- Britton Jeter
- Hung-Yi Pu
- Boris Georgiev
- Abhishek V. Joshi
- Alejandro Cruz-Osorio
- Iniyan Natarajan
- Avery E. Broderick
- León D. S. Salas
- Koushik Chatterjee
- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### Keywords:

- accretion
- accretion disks
- black hole physics
- gravitation
- galaxies: active

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202555235" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>
- <a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.10333" target="_blank" rel="noopener">arXiv</a>

---

### Abstract:

We investigate the origin of the elliptical ring structure observed in the images of the supermassive black hole M87*, aiming to disentangle contributions from gravitational, astrophysical, and imaging effects. Leveraging the enhanced capabilities of the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT)'s 2018 array, including improved $(u,v)$-coverage from the Greenland Telescope, we measured the ring's ellipticity using five independent imaging methods, obtaining a consistent average value of $\tau = 0.08_-0.02^+0.03$ with a position angle of $\xi = 50.1_-7.6^+6.2$ degrees. To interpret this measurement, we compared it to general relativistic magnetohydrodynamic (GRMHD) simulations spanning a wide range of physical parameters including the thermal or nonthermal electron distribution function, spins, and ion-to-electron temperature ratios in both low- and high-density regions. We find no statistically significant correlation between spin and ellipticity in GRMHD images. Instead, we identify a correlation between ellipticity and the fraction of non-ring emission, particularly in nonthermal models and models with higher jet emission. These results indicate that the ellipticity measured from the M87* emission structure is consistent with that expected from simulations of turbulent accretion flows around black holes, where it is dominated by astrophysical effects rather than gravitational ones. Future high-resolution imaging, including space very long baseline interferometry and long-term monitoring, will be essential to isolate gravitational signatures from astrophysical effects.
