---
date: 2026-01-01
publishDate: 2026-01-01
title: "Spatially resolved polarization swings in the supermassive binary black hole candidate OJ 287 with first Event Horizon Telescope observations"
tags: ["Journal Paper"]
math: true
draft: false
---

*Astronomy \& Astrophysics*, vol. 705, pp. A23(24pp)

### Authors:

- Jos\'e L.} {G\'omez
- Ilje Cho
- Efthalia Traianou
- Thomas P. Krichbaum
- Guang-Yao Zhao
- Rocco Lico
- Antonio Fuentes
- Marianna Foschi
- Rohan Dahale
- Boris Georgiev
- Kotaro Moriyama
- Maciek Wielgus
- Roman Gold
- Dominic W. Pesce
- Hendrik} {M\"uller
- Svetlana Jorstad
- Teresa Toscano
- Jan} {R\"oder
- Jos\'e M.} {Mart\'\i
- Manel Perucho
- Yuri Y. Kovalev
- Stefanie Komossa
- Achamveedu Gopakumar
- Mauri J. Valtonen
- Gabriele Bruni
- Sunil Chandra
- The Event Horizon Telescope Collaboration

### Keywords:

- black hole physics / instabilities / radiation
                  mechanisms: non-thermal / techniques:
                  interferometric / galaxies: active / galaxies:
                  individual: OJ 287

### URL:

- <a href="https://doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202555831" target="_blank" rel="noopener">DOI</a>

---

### Abstract:

We present the first Event Horizon Telescope 1.3 mm observations of the supermassive binary black hole candidate OJ~287. The observations achieved an unprecedented angular resolution of 18 µas and reveal significant structural and polarization variability over just five days, marking the shortest timescale on which such changes have been directly imaged in this source. The inner jet exhibits a twisted ridgeline structure, with features displaying apparent superluminal motions up to about 22 c. The linear polarization maps reveal three main polarized features whose electric-vector position angles (EVPAs) change substantially over the time span of our observations, including a component with a radial polarization consistent with being produced by a recollimation shock. Most notably, we directly resolved two innermost jet components whose EVPAs rotate in opposite directions. The faster component, moving at $2.4\pm\qty[per-mode=symbol]0.9{µas\perday}$ ($17.4\pm6.5 c$), exhibits counterclockwise EVPA swings of roughly 3.7° per day, while the slower component, with a proper motion of $1.4\pm\qty[per-mode=symbol]0.3{µas\perday}$ ($10.2\pm2.2 c$), rotates clockwise at approximately 2.5° per day. Previous studies inferred helical magnetic fields in AGN jets from time-resolved or integrated polarization variability but lacked the angular resolution to directly image this effect. Our results provide spatially resolved evidence that a helical magnetic field threads the jet's collimation and acceleration zone, ruling out models based on the superposition of unresolved components. Our analysis suggests that propagating shocks interact with a Kelvin-Helmholtz plasma instability, illuminating different phases of the helical magnetic field and producing the observed polarization spatial and temporal variability. Moreover, our model naturally accounts for the more rapid polarization rotation observed in the faster moving component. Our model predicts even more rapid swings in polarization, which could be tested with future observations featuring a more densely sampled time coverage.
